# MediaMe
DECO2017 Assignment

## Configuration and deployment procedures
The application is tested on a 1440 x 790 screen. It is also the largest screen size in which intentional responsive design is tested on, with a 450 x 790 screen size being the smallest.

To deploy, download npm by running 'npm install' to download the dependencies. Type in 'npm run start' in the terminal to run a local server. The app will then be ready to use.

As the app is using localStorage to store all user input data, the app can only store a small amount of data. Images can be quite large files thus for the meantime any images stored in the 'example_thumbnail_inputs' file can be used to test out the custom image feature of the app. 

## Development process and iterations
For my HTML and CSS the development process was pretty smooth. I finished with the styling of a fresh new webpage before proceeding to JavaScript to add functionality and generating cards using DOM manipulation. This is where most of my programming issues lie.

As I had an issue with parsing Date objects from localStorage (terminal keeps raising an error saying they can't get the object), I had to modify my original date attribute to store an already modified string based on the methods of the Date objects. I am still not sure how to parse it as objects (even though I used JSON.parse()), but by storing most of my attributes as strings means that it will raise less errors when trying to retrieve data. 

Before I implemented localStorage and stored my data in an array in my JavaScript, I initially had my id attrbute for the card as the length of the array + 1. However since I cannot do this anymore, I had to change it so that the id is generated by the amount of cards generated in total from when the first card was added. This is done by storing the largest id of all the cards in a idGenerator global variable. When creating a new card object, its id will be the largest id value plus 1, thus making the new card now having the largest id value. After assigning the id to a card it will not change. This way, cards will always have a unique id identifier that is not affected by the deletion of cards.

I did the design and functions for the nav bar last. While it was easy to create a CSS design for desktop view, I had more trouble implementing it on mobile view considering I wanted to use a hamburger menu for it. Due to how I structured my HTML, creating such menu is beyond my skills. I was also scared of restructing my HTML as I feared that it may also be a sunk-cost fallacy if at the end the desktop version is now unfixable. In the end, I settled down with a nav bar that is a modified version of by desktop one. I think this experience had taught me that if I decide to create websites that have both desktop and mobile view, I should start with mobile first especially if I want to implement such designs. I feel like you can get away more with the desktop version, but not so much mobile as it tends to have a lot more interactions and movement e.g. hamburger menu.

## Further improvements or extensions
For a better user experience, I would like to implement animations when adding/deleting cards to the list and when moving to the different 'filters' accessible in the nav bar. I think this would make the transition less jarring, and let users ease in and process the changing of the different view.

In the future, I would like to use a website host so users can use their own images without being limited on the image's size. Not only would this provide users larger amount of freedom, having higher quality user images can make the site more appealing since images are a big higlight for the website.

A shareable link can also be useful so that users can easily show others their own personalised list. This would add a social element to it as some people are often proud of the types of media they've watched, the amount they've watched, or for any other reasons. Thus by implementing this feature they an easily display their personality through their media consumption.
